- [Instructor] Whether you are building microservices
or a client calling them through an API,
it is helpful to understand
the wide array of complex access scenarios
that can influence your security scheme.
Access to a microservice occurs through a client,
which is the system making the call to the service.
Microservices are not directly accessed by end users.
In many cases, clients don't directly access a microservice.
All of their calls are passed through the API gateway.
Additional complexity is introduced
when we start to consider
the different types of clients that are possible.
Some clients known as public clients
are unable to maintain
the confidentiality of their credentials.
For example, single page applications
are unable to store credentials securely
because they run in the browser
where their credentials could be accessed by an attacker.
On the other hand, confidential clients
can protect the confidentiality
of their credentials to some degree.
This is because they run in a trusted domain.
These clients typically will reside on the server side
where access to their internals
is limited to a small group of authorized users.
It's also important to consider
who owns a client application.
When we talk about first-party clients,
we're referring to clients owned by the same organization
that built a microservice.
On the other hand, there can be third-party clients
who are outside parties and partners
that will access the microservice.
This makes things harder from a security perspective
because we do not control their security policies,
and we cannot confirm
that the security posture of their client is adequate.
In general, organizations tend to make
their microservice security controls
more stringent for third-party clients.
However, some organizations will implement a strategy
where they require their own first-party clients
to satisfy the same stringent security controls
applied for third parties.
Another thing to consider
is whether client resides inside or outside of your network.
Internal applications such as those used by the workforce,
sit within the company firewall
and can receive some benefits
from their limited accessibility.
External public facing applications
typically face a wider audience of potential attackers,
making them more accessible to attack.
In any case, an application's position
inside or outside of your network
should never be a case for fewer security controls
because of the threat of insiders
or lateral attacks that can occur
once the perimeter of your system is breached.
When we start to think about
how the end user fits into the picture,
other scenarios develop.
In most basic situations that involve a human end user,
a first-party web application
or first-party single page application
will make calls to a microservice
owned by the same organization that built the service.
If you've adopted an IAM platform,
you'll often find capabilities
that integrate transparently into your architecture
to handle this scenario.
In more advanced situations,
a human will consent to a third-party application
accessing some or all of their resources on a microservice
operated by a different organization.
Think of it like allowing somebody to borrow your car.
They don't own it, but they can use it,
and maybe there's some restrictions
like only to the store and back.
When microservices are exposed to third parties or partners,
the security behind them must be prepared to handle
these types of digital delegated access scenarios.
If a networking site has ever requested to access
your contact lists hosted somewhere else,
you've seen this scenario in action.
In some scenarios, humans are not involved at all,
and the communication is machine to machine
similar to when using a service account.
In these scenarios, microservice security must support
a non-human access scenario for first-party clients,
and in some cases, third-party business partners.
This is actually one of the simplest scenarios to secure.
Microservice deployments must support
a wide array of access scenarios
to keep up with the demands of an interconnected world.
This makes another strong case
for using pre-existing platforms
and leveraging the established security standards.
As we explore OAuth,
we'll see how the access scenarios
can determine which flow is used by a client
to obtain an access token.